now the leaders of Egypt Jordan and the
Palestinian Authority have condemned
Israel for what they called the
collective punishment of civilians in
Gaza they've been speaking at a peace
Summit in Cairo now in the last hour the
UK's foreign secretary James cleverly
condemned the actions of Hamas but said
he's spoken to the Israeli government
about its duty to act in accordance with
international law I am sure we all share
the revoltion at hamas's murderous acts
of terrorism the targeting of the uh
civilians the murdering of children the
desecration of dead bodies and I'm sure
we are all distressed by the plight of
Palestinian civilians in Gaza whose
lives have been made harder more painful
and more dangerous because of the brutal
attacks by Hamas on the 7th of
October and we all mourn the Dead
both Israeli and
Palestinian James cleverly there well
we've also heard from Palestinian
president Mahmud Abbas he's the head of
the Palestinian Authority which has
control over areas of the occupied West
Bank but not the Hamas ran Gaza Strip
now he used his opening remarks to say
that Palestinians will not be forced off
their land
and we warn against any attempts to
displace our people in Gaza Beyond its
borders we also warn against any
evictions of Palestinians from their
homes or displacement from Jerusalem or
the West
Bank we will not accept displacement we
will remain steadfast on our land no
matter the
challenges the UN Secretary General
Antonio guz described the scene out the
Rafa Crossing as a human catastrophe
after his visit on
Friday a 20 TR vo of the Egyptian red
crescent is moving today and I want to
express my deep gratitude to Egypt for
the central role Egypt is playing in
this
regard but the people of Gaza need a
commitment for much much more a
continuous delivery of Aid to Gaza at
the scale that is needed and we are
working nonstop with all parties that
are relevant to make it
happen excellencies let's be clear
the Grievances of the Palestinian people
are legitimate and
long we cannot and must not ignore the
wider context for these tragic events
the long-standing conflict and 56 years
of occupation with no end in
sight but nothing can justify the
reprehensible assault by Hamas that
aoriz the terrorized Israeli
civilians and those abhorent attacks can
never justify by the collective
punishment of the Palestinian
people institutional humanitarian law
including the Geneva conventions must be
upheld and that includes protecting
civilians and not attacking hospitals
schools and un premises that are
currently Sheltering half a million
people excellencies our near-term goals
must be clear immediate and restricted
and sustained humanitarian aid for B
civilians in
Gaza immediate and unconditional release
of all
hostages and immediate and dedicated
efforts to prevent the spread of
violence which is increasing the risk of
spillover to advance all these efforts I
appeal for a humanitarian ceasefire
now excellencies our sustained
Collective efforts and resources have
never been needed more as we focus on
ending the Bloodshed we cannot lose
sight of the only realistic foundation
for a true peace and stability a
two-state
solution Israelis must see their
legitimate needs for security
materialized and Palestinians must see
their legitimate aspirations for an
independent state realized in line with
with United Nations resolutions
international law and previous
agreements the time has come for
action action to end this godol God awul
Nightmare and action to build a future
worthy of the dreams of the children of
Palestine Israel the region and our
world
shukran Egyptian president Abdul Fat Al
CI told leaders at that Summit that the
aim is to end the humanitarian disaster
in the Gaza Strip and revive a path to
peace between Israel and the
Palestinians we warn against any
attempts to displace our people in Gaza
Beyond its borders we also warn against
any evictions of Palestinians from their
homes or displacement from Jerusalem or
the West
Bank we will not accept displacement we
will remain steadfast on our land no
matter the
challenges well for more on all of this
let's go live to our BBC Arabic reporter
Abdul Bas Hassan who is in Cairo at that
conference for us thanks very much for
joining us just bringing us up to date
on the latest uh with what's happening
where you
are yes the participants are in a break
now for almost half an hour expectedly
they would issue a final statement uh
after this uh break uh which mainly May
feature According to some experts who
have been following this event in Cairo
a call for an immediate ceasefire number
one number two protecting the civilian I
from both sides number three of course
the uh opening and increasing the span
of the operation of extending Aid
humanitarian assistance and food water
fuel and other supplies uh uh to Gaza uh
almost like an hour ago uh some Western
uh foreign ministers have talked in uh
the session uh they raised an among what
they said that Israel has the ref the
right to defend itself but the
international laws in this regard should
be respected this is their call others
have promised more uh supplies and more
uh funds for supplying Palestinians with
needs especially Norway and Canada uh of
course the main call still is an
immediate seiz fire and uh some some of
this who spoke minutes ago have called
for the International Community
represented in the security Council to
reconsider it stand some of them blamed
the failure or what they called failure
by the UN Security Council to try to
find a solution an immediate solution
for the current conflict and the others
of course said or demanded that the
roots of the issue should be addressed
in a wider consideration of the needs
demands and uh the conditions of both
sides uh there are calls that or remarks
including destruction wouldn't bring or
would not bring uh Prosperity therefore
they considered both sides are losers
and therefore the uh call for a
permanent solution markedly by the
establishment of Palestinian State
remained a a major call here and of
course uh a call for immediate release
for hostages but still the uh uh demand
for supplies for Gaza is rising here um
Abdul Bas one thing that struck me is
that this conference that you are at
doesn't have representatives from Israel
Iran or the US so how much progress can
be made when everyone isn't actually
around that
table let's consider the fact that some
countries especially the United the
Europeans said they don't expect a lot
from the uh conference but at least it
is the first political consensus here
for a group of leaders a group of head
of state to discuss this issue after 15
days the US is represented by and and
someone said it is the lowest
representation by its Char Affairs in
Egypt while of course some other
European countries are represented by
their head their Prime Ministers
including uh uh uh Italy and uh uh
therefore the what's expected here today
is just a common ground on what should
be done now immediately and of course
waiting for more inter from the United
the UN Security Council okay for the
moment Abdul bassir Hassan who is live
at that Summit in Cairo for us thank you
very much